FISH-8260 Document Evaluation of Extra Params in OpenID (#444)
payara/Payara-Documentation: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/Technical Documentation/Public API/OpenID Connect Support.adoc

| N/A.

| `extraParameters`

> | `payara.security.openid.extraParams.raw` (compatibility with older version)

Reviewer: What does the `compatibility with older version` sentence mean? Is this property new to `5.65.0` or is it the other way around?

Author: `payara.security.openid.extraParams.raw` is an older feature, for some reason not properly documented. The `extraParamsProperties` is a better solution, backported from similar annotation in Jakarta EE 10.

E.g. it is backported only to Payara 5, as Payara 6 (Jakarta EE 10) has the Jakarta annotation and there is no need for Payara-specific version.

| `false`
| An array of extra options to be sent to the OpenID Connect provider.
|
| This is an array of strings in the form `key=value`, can use EL expression for values `key=#{expr}`. MP Config property is a string and must follow URL query pattern, i.e. `key1=value1&key2=value2&key2=value+with+spaces`. Key entries can be repeated. See the section <<extraparameters>> for more details.

| `extraParametersExpression`
| 
| `false`

> | Overrides `extraParameters`, if specified, `extraParameters` is ignored. An array of extra options to be sent to the OpenID Connect provider.

Reviewer 2: I'd reword this.
```suggestion
| An array of extra options to be sent to the OpenID Connect provider in the form of an Expression Language expression. If specified, overrides `extraParameters`. 
```

> | An array of extra options to be sent to the OpenID Connect provider in the form of an Expression Language expression. If specified, overrides `extraParameters`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| An array of extra options to be sent to the OpenID Connect provider in the form of an Expression Language expression. If specified, overrides `extraParameters` (but not `payara.security.openid.extraParams.raw`). 
```

|

> | The content is supposed to be an EL expression. The expression must evaluate as either list of strings (apply the same rules as for `extraParameters`) or a string - this is split by comma and the strings are used as `extraParameters`. Example: `extraParametersExpression = "#{securityBean.extraParams}`

Reviewer: Remove the ambiguity, instead of saying "The content is supposed to be an EL expression", state: "Corresponds to an EL expression string", for example.
Also, put the example on a new line to improve the cell's readability.

| false 
|===

=== `extraParameters` Evaluation

> The `extraParameters` option is syntactically an array of strings, so it cannot be directly injected by MP Config, which can only provide strings. There are ways, how to configure it:

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused by this section and the change implemented, I have some questions:

. Isn't injecting a list/array of strings through MP Configuration technically possible? I recall that you can do this by using a custom converter. 
. Was the change implemented to the `payara.security.openid.extraParams` property? Did it support MP config injection before and now the `payara.security.openid.extraParams.raw` property supports it?

1. Backward compatibility: The annotation supports the MP Config value `payara.security.openid.extraParams.raw` in form of URL parameters. If this is specified, it takes precedence and evaluation stops.

> 2. Expression-Based Configuration: The `extraParametersExpression` option was introduced for configuring arrays in a manner similar to Jakarta 10 and later. This option is evaluated as an EL expression. If it returns a list of strings, these strings are used in the form `"key=value"`. If the expression results in a single string, it must be in comma-separated format  (`"key1=value1,key2=value2"`). The values are split by commas and used. Any other type will result in an error.

Reviewer: Remember that this is the Payara Plat 5.x documentation, so mentioning Jakarta EE 10 here doesn't make much sense. I would remove this sentence.

Author: The request from the customer was "Do it similarly to JEE 10", so I thought it would be good to mention it here. I could use a work "backport".

3. Default Configuration: If no other configuration is provided, `extraParameters` are resolved. Each string is split by `=`. The value can be either a direct value (`"key=value"`) or an expression (`"key=#{expression}"`).

> 

Reviewer: I'd add an example or 2 to clarify how these properties are expected to work in different scenarios since it is a bit confusing.

IMPORTANT: By default, the EL expressions are evaluated only once after the application is loaded and the evaluated values are then remembered until the application is reloaded, for performance reasons. This means that although the configuration can be evaluated dynamically the first time it's needed, it's not possible to change the configuration later on. If you need to dynamically modify the configuration during the lifetime of the application, follow the next section about multi-tenancy support.

[[extraparameters]]
=== Evaluation of `extraParameters`

> There are several ways, how to configure `extraParameters` using Expression Language and Microprofile Config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several ways, how to configure `extraParameters` using Expression Language and MicroProfile Config. The order of precedence is: `payara.security.openid.extraParams.raw` overrides `extraParametersExpression`, which overrides the plain `extraParams` value.
```

==== Replaced by MP Config Value

> The annotation supports the MP Config value `payara.security.openid.extraParams.raw` (see `OpenIdAuthenticationDefinition.OPENID_MP_EXTRA_PARAMS_RAW`) in form of URL-encoded parameters. If specified, it takes precedence. Example of the value, e.g. in `META-INF/microprofile-config.properties` file:

Reviewer 2: > If specified, it takes precedence

Over what? The text in the configuration options table would indicate that `extraParametersExpression` takes precedence over this `extraParameters`.

I think this needs clarifying

```
payara.security.openid.extraParams.raw=key1=1%2C2&key2=value2
```

==== Replaced by `extraParametersExpression`

> The `extraParametersExpression` option was introduced in a manner similar to Jakarta 10 and later. If specified, this option is evaluated as an EL expression, e.g. it expects a bean returning the configuration. If it returns a list of strings, these strings are used in the form `"key=value"`. Values can use further expressions to be configurable at runtime.

Reviewer 2: The product is Jakarta EE 10, not Jakarta 10
```suggestion
The `extraParametersExpression` option was introduced in a manner similar to Jakarta EE 10 and later. If specified, this option is evaluated as an EL expression, e.g. it expects a bean returning the configuration. If it returns a list of strings, these strings are used in the form `"key=value"`. Values can use further expressions to be configurable at runtime.
```

Author: FISH-8260 jakarta "EE" forgotten
